Now that you have familiarized yourself with the starter code and have played
around with the new APIs that has been created at the e-commerce application,
let's go ahead and get a JWT and access the APIs.
So we will now see what the end product is going to look like.
So that after that we can go ahead and implement
JWT authentication in the form of a username and
password in the e-commerce application and have it working.
Let's look at this very simple explanation picture
of the request and response and how they will interact with the server.
This is a client. The client sends a request to the server,
and the client server then requests for credentials.
The client then responds with the credentials which are
used in order to validate their authenticity.
This is then gone dispose through the access control.
Then the authentication response is sent back to
the user which can either be a fail or a success.
So you would either get unauthorized user or you would get an okay response.
How this pans out in the JWT world is that when a user
successfully logs in which they have already got a 200 OK response,
they get a JWT token.
Now every time the user tries to access any of the resources that are there are secure,
they would need to pass this JWT token that has been given to them from their login,
so that the server knows that they are
the authenticated user and they will be allowed access to these resources.
Let's look at how this looks in the application.
So previously, we had create API,
and we were able to create the API with
just the username because there was no password concept.
Now we're trying to implement password with JWT.
I'm going to send- So here in the API,
I have already implemented it.
So I'm going to click send,
and I got an internal server error
which means that something went wrong in this particular API request.
So the problem here is that with the change of the API,
using JWT, now I would need to pass two more fields.
The first one being password,
and I have some basic validation added to it,
which is the length should be at least seven letters.
So abcdefg.
When you are creating a user,
you would usually be asked to confirm the password as well.
Like in any application when you're creating a user.
So now this is my new request.
Let me go ahead and try this.
So this is a final result.
I have already implemented password in this.
So the user gets created only when you enter a password and it confirms password and see
the status is 200 OK. Now if I'm trying to login as this user,
and I call this API which is something that I've added and I pass.
So you would not pass confirm password when you're logging in.
You just enter your username and password.
Let's try to login, and I got a 200 OK. Now if I
look at the headers, the response headers,
like I was explaining to you,
since it's been implemented using JWT,
now I have a JWT token which has the bearer schema and this is how it looks.
So earlier when I was going through the tutorial,
I had mentioned that there are three parts of the JWT token,
and these are the three parts.
If you can see this there is a period here,
and this is part two,
and this is part three.
So header, payload, and signature.
So that's pretty much it.
What I would do is when I'm trying to do anything with the resources.
So I'm trying to get access to the resources,
I would pass this authorization in my header section.
Let me show that to you next.
Okay. So now, I have logged in successfully and I had been given
an authorization and a bearer token or JWT token,
and I am going to show you what is going to happen when I
do not pass this token and try to AddToCart.
So this is my AddToCart API,
and I click Add to Cart,
and as you see the headers only has application JSON.
It does not contain the authorization,
which is why I got to forbidden,
which is an unauthorized user 403.
What I need to do now as I mentioned before is I need to
get the authorization added as a header and then make
the request so that the server identifies me as
an authorized user and allows me to Add To Cart for this particular user.
So let's do that.
I am going to add this to authorization,
and I'm going to add better token.
Let me try it in. So here I just
added an item 2.99 in-memory database,
and this time I'm an authenticated user who successfully added to cart.
Now I'm going to show what happens when I submit an order with whatever has been
added to the cart that one item and this is without my token.
So the only header I have here is application JSON. Let me send.
Again, I got access denied or forbidden,
and I'm going to pick the authorization token again.
So this is how you would do a bulk edit.
If you were to just copy paste from postman I'd pick the entire header,
and I go to submit an order.
I again click bulk edit and add it here.
So basically I'm just adding the authentication here and I click, ''Submit.''
So this time I did not get 403,
but I got 200,
which means that I was successfully authenticated and my order was created.
So this is what we are trying to achieve next.
So let's look at how this gets implemented
and there will be step-by-step instructions in order to complete this.